So let's head back over to server.js.
Let's talk about socket.on data we're
gonna say server.js socket.on data.
We're gonna say const,
message equals parse message.
And we're gonna pass it that buffer
that we got from the client, right?
This thing right there, right.
That's getting passed here into that.
And this is gonna end up
being the message, right.
The thing that we actually
got back from the client.
And then we're just gonna say if message
because maybe like they sent like an empty
frame or something like that.
That'll definitely happen.
You're going to say if message
sending us a Message.Push.
Message.user,
message.text rather.
And then a time which is date.now.
All right.
So now, our socket is now accepting data.
It's storing it all that good
stuff is definitely happening.
So just to kind of prove my point here.
We're gonna go back over here to our chat.
And we're gonna say hi from the socket.
Now I'm gonna submit.
Nothing's gonna inform because we haven't
actually pushed this back out to our
clients yet.
But if I refresh the page,
we'll see it right.
Because on that first page,
loaded loads, all the messages, right?
So, if I do that and
refresh the page again.
You'll see here again that we're getting
the new messages every time that
we refresh the page.
Because we're doing this
socket.write right here, right.?
So, we're getting closer.
But now we actually want to inform
all of our various different users.
Whenever a new socket,
like new message comes in,
that it broadcasts out back
to all of our clients.
So we're gonna do the exact same thing
that we just did with the HTTP two
clients.
And we're gonna keep track
of all the connections.
So we have our connections array up here,
right?
And then inside of
the Here
we're just gonna say connections.push,
socket, right.
Under the socket.on data,
we definitely want to say socket.on end.
Like whenever the socket ends, we just
wanna remove it from our active sockets.
So we're gonna say same thing here
connections equals connections.filter
socket S is not equal to R socket
Right, so we're just gonna filter
out the existing socket that
we had using the exact same kind of
logic and from our previous example
Okay and then inside of here on
the on data what we wanna do,
inside of this if message, right.
What we're gonna do is every
time that a user pushes a new
message in here we're gonna
say connection.For each.
And again, you can do a For loop here.
That would totally work as well.
Or like a For of loop.
Yeah, For
off loop would work right here to.
For each and we're just gonna say
Connections, sorry, not that.
We're gonna say for each socket on here.
We're just gonna say
socket.write object to response.
And we're just gonna write out
the message with get messages.
Right, so
now every time that we got a new message
in here it's gonna go through
all of our connections.
And it's gonna write to all of those open
sockets, all of the new messages that
are coming in And
the one thing that is like what
happens if messages No, right?
So if we get back no from parse message or
something that we don't recognize.
If you remember here in our parse message.
If we return one, if we get an opcode,
eight, we just return No.
That means connections closed.
Everything's done now, right?
So what we're gonna do,
is we're gonna come back over here.
Say if there's no message,
so else if message triple equals No.
Then we're gonna say socket.end, right?
Because we got an opcode eight.
I mean it's cool.
It's time to shut it down.
And that's what this will do here.
And what's cool is it actively
calls socket.end here.
Then this will get fired and automatically
it'll get cleaned up as well.
Okay, last thing to do here just
super quick over in raw chat.js.
We're gonna add one more listener for
a closed WS, add event listener, close.
And we're gonna say
presence dot inner text and
we're gonna make this a red circle.
Whenever the socket closes, we wanna tell
people by the way the socket is closed.
Okay, so
let's pop over to the chat with me here.
Now if we send messages here.
Hopefully they should start coming in from
all the various different sources right?
So let's open a second window of this.
And if I can see it already comes in here.
Let me say that.
Now if we go back over here,
you can see it's
automatically pushing back and
forth from both of them.
That is writing Web Sockets by hand.
Which again, not gonna suggest
that you ever do this again.
Probably shouldn't have done it this time.
I'm being honest.
But I think it's super interesting to know
how it works into like you'll be a more
aware of how you can like squeeze more
performance out of sockets if you need to.
If you need to drop into lower layers for
any reason whatsoever.
Knowledge is all there for you.
And I guess what I wanna say is
we're about to do socket.io.
And you're about to just be absolutely
floored of how easy socket.io is.
We take something really difficult we
made a really nice abstraction for it.
Yeah.
>> Where are we pushing the different
connection sockets to the connections
array?
>> It is here, line 46.
So we write the headers, we write
the first response to the connected user.
And then we push them
to active connections.
And then down here we removed
them whenever they're done.
Yeah, question.
>> I was just curious because
touch the WS package before.
I was wondering if you
could share your thoughts.
I know socket that I was easier
apparently to implement.
But I wanna know you pick,
like according to you, like WS?
What are your opinions?
>> Yeah, what do I think about WS?
I actually talk about it
at the end of the course.
So if I don't sufficiently answer your
question, then ask the question again.
Finished version of the app to be
found here under a WebSocket/raw.
I mean, everything that we
just did together is there.
I mean we have a working WebSocket
connection that we totally wrote by hand.
So you can definitely be
impressed by yourself right now.